Bike-sharing systems have increased significantly in recent centuries thanks to their benefit in transportation, environment, health, and economy. However, despite the considerable benefits, it is incredibly challenging to manage these systems effectively and efficiently. The imbalance problem is considered the biggest challenge in bike-sharing systems. Due to the unbalanced spatial-temporal demand, some stations are empty (underflow) while some stations are full (overflow).

Numerous studies have been done on bike-sharing systems to propose bike demand/bike availability predictive models - the premise for bike rebalancing solutions. The outcomes of these predictive models could help policymakers and managers to devise a plan to redistribute available bikes between bike stations, which makes the operation of bike-sharing systems more efficient.

By using the datasets of the Dublinbikes system, the study proposes approaches to modelling the available bikes of a given bike station. Machine learning techniques were implemented to determine the main factors such as geographical factor, time factor, meteorological factor, and COVID-19 factor which affect the availability of bike in Dublinbikes system. The results showed that location, the hour in a day, temperature, humidity, wind direction, wind gust, wind speed, COVID-19 daily confirmed new cases in Dublin, and COVID-19 daily confirmed new cases in the whole of Ireland are significant predictors.

To build predictive models, Random Forest algorithms and time-series techniques were implemented, and the outcomes showed that Random Forest is better.

